LinguapressIntermediate English readingLinguapress.com
English grammarAdvanced readingIntermediate readingLanguage games and puzzles


    ► You are here:   Linguapress EFL / ESL resources  ›  Intermediate English resources
Graded English reading texts with vocabulary guides, and also worksheets, interactive exercises and audio:
CEF levels B1 and B2, Cambridge First Certficate.
Topical - cultural - technical - fictional
Intermediate level index:	American themes	British themes	Short stories etc.	Technical English	Puzzles & word games
Solidarity with the heroic people of Ukraine

Linguapress  stands in full solidarity with the people of Ukraine, and with those in Russ1a who know that the unprovoked invasion of Ukraine is an act of madness. 
STOP THE WAR
Here is a message for our readers in R U 5 5 1 ATOPICAL  After 70 years on the throne, Queen Elizabeth II died peacefully in Scotland on 8th September.
Her eldest son Charles has now  become king. Who is he? Discover:

Updated : Charles III - Britain's new king  
NEW : Remembering Queen Elizabeth - simple English
 Updated :  The men who guard the King and Queen With  audio - who are the red-coated guards outside Buckingham Palace ?

All Linguapress.com online resources are open access and completely free to use at home or in class. There is nothing to pay, and no need to register or sign up before you use them.

Audio: A number of texts are now accompanied by audio recordings. See below.

Printing:  Linguapress reading resources are printer-ready. No need for PDF. Select your browser's print icon, or select print from the menu, to print just an article and its word guide. Exercises and teacher notes print on  separate pages.

Teachers: For more ideas for using reading resources in the classroom see Reading comprehension .

Interactive resources: Many articles come with interactive worksheet resources that can be used in class, done on paper, or filled in on screen.
   
Reading texts for intermediate  English - CEF levels B1 and B2
A collection of reading resources mostly about life and issues in Britain and the United States, in intermediate level English - with word guides, exercises and classroom activities

NEW: Grammar index: find articles for ► specific points of grammar and types of exercise / classroom activity.
1. Topics with a North-American theme
E-book, paperback or hardback Discover the essential simplicity of English grammar
NEW   American Indians - The original inhabitants of the USA 
NEW   Alcohol, Prohibition and Al Capone B1 level, a simple but interesting text with interactive worksheet.
Profession : Cowboy There are still cowboys working today in the American west
George Washington -  With  audio - the story of America's first president
Hollywood & Superheroes 
canada Focus on Canada An introduction to Canada in intermediate-level English
USA: Still looking for Gold  Out west, the gold rush is not yet over...
USA: who was Buffalo Bill? With  audio - Remembering one of America's great folk heroes .
USA: Team sports, American style  Why do the USA and Europe have different sports?
Elvis - he's still the "King" and his home Graceland, in Memphis, is a major tourist attraction.
The story of Silicon Valley  What is Silicon valley, where is it, and why ?
The story of Coca-Cola. The name "Coca-Cola" is the best-known name in the whole world.
The story of Blue Jeans. The world's most popular garment was first created in 1873
Hollywood - its life and times A short story of Hollywood, in easy English.
America's oil - a love affair Americans use a lot of energy; but the cost of oil is going up.
USA: Winter sports USA  Americans love winter sports, because their winters are so cold
USA: Close encounters with a Twister  -  A tornado strikes....
More resources coming.....

2.  Topics about life in Britain

Britain in general 	Society	London	Icons	Dialogues	Sport
Britain in general
NEW  London Fashion - London is the world capital of fashion
NEW  Remembering Queen Elizabeth - simple English
NEW   Britain's new king  With  audio - Queen Elizabeth II has died. God save the King.
The Commonwealth.  After the United Nations, it is the world's largest grouping of nations ..
Britain - a nation of cat-lovers  - A touching story about an old lady and her cats: interactive
The tradition of Christmas cards.  People have been sending Xmas cards in England since 1843.
Christmas in England Christmas is the biggest... and longest... festival in the year.
Christmas shopping  For many people, it is the most important aspect of Christmas.
Britain, that island:   With  audio - Why did Britain vote for Brexit? Is Britain really so different ? Easy intermediate English
Society
Living in the Highlands. What is it like to live in the Highlands of Scotland, specially for young people?
The wind farm controversy - Conservationists oppose plans to modernise a wind farm.
Moving to the Country - With  audio  More and more people want to live the rural life, but....
Leaving home - Leaving home is part of the teenage dream, particularly in Britain. But the dream is often a long way from reality.
Black and British; an extended document.  A full Focus on minorities in Britain.
No more Fish 'n' Chips?  a look at Britain's original fast food
Scouting moves ahead. The scout movement is over 100 years old, and still going strong.
English ghost stories  Fact or fiction?
Dialogues
NEW  Polluting for pleasure ? - B1 - a dialogue in simple English
Pollution - someone else's problem- a humorous dialogue on a serious subject.
Dialogue: Work  British school pupils talk about work
Dialogue: Drugs  British school pupils discuss drugs – now less cool than they used to be
Dialogue: Talking about "culture"  What is culture? And do teenagers get enough of it?
Dialogue: Are you a brand slave? British teens discuss designer clothes
Dialogue: Fast food, OK ?  With  audio - British teens discuss fast food. 
Dialogue: School uniforms  With  audio -  British school pupils discuss the pros and the cons
Icons
NEW   Black taxis going green.  London's iconic black taxis are changing.
My name is Bond.  An imaginary interview with James Bond.
New Life for Big Ben.  With  audio . London's iconic clock is being renovated.
Charlie Chaplin and the Little Tramp.  A classic story of "rags to riches".
Sherlock Holmes is getting old  - The famous detective first appeared in 1887. - over 130 years ago.
Music : the Beatles - Fifty years on, they are still among the best-selling groups in the world.
Robin Hood - Fact or fiction ?  Did this popular hero really exist?
The Loch Ness Monster - does it really exist?
 Who is James Bond ?
 The story of the BBC - Britain's main broadcaster is one of the most important in the world
 The men who guard the Queen With  audio - who are the red-coated guards outside Buckingham Palace ?
London
NEW   New Life for Big Ben.  With  audio .  London's iconic clock is being renovated.
 London in the Sea ? - Britain's capital city is at serious risk from rising sea levels.
The story of London - Britain's capital city, once the biggest city in the world, is over 2000 years old.
       This document as a printable .pdf file: London-story.pdf
Big red London buses  With  audio  -  the story of London's famous routemaster buses
London : Madame Tussaud's -  Where you can be sure to see the celebrities every day
London: the Lord Mayor's show.  One of the biggest free shows in the world.
London: the Great River Race London's other marathon
Sport
Britain: sport cuts crime.  In Bristol, a new football league is making its mark
Sport: The story of the Derby - With  audio - The oldest and most famous horse race in the world.
Sport: The story of football and rugby - and how football came from England to Brazil.
More resources coming

3. Other resources - short stories, technical English, songs, cartoons
 Looking for the yeti.  Does this legendary creature really exist ?
 Humour and jokes.  in easy English
Short stories - teenage fiction  (► see also short stories)
NEW  Short story: Dr. Trelew's Encounter - (B1) a Victorian mystery with worksheet and  audio
NEW  Short story: Dance Macabre  - (B1) a short story from the USA with worksheets and  audio
NEW Short story: Driftwood  - (B2) a short story from England with worksheet and  audio
Short story: the Wimp.  Teenage fiction, in two parts, with worksheets and  audio
Short Story - The Girl in the Denim Jacket , a story in two parts with worksheets and  audio
Short Story - The Trap , a story in two parts
Mystery : The Titanic and the Temple of Doom  Did this really happen ?
Short story: the Box  - a short story in two parts with worksheets and  audio
Short Story - One Foggy Night - teenage fiction -  a short story in two parts with worksheets and  audio
Short Story - The path to High Crag , a story in two parts
Songs
Song: I would if I could.  An English learning song; theme, modal verbs (+ audio)
Song: the Titanic.  A popular folk song, with words (+  audio)

Technical subjects
NEW   Storing electricity - the big challenge. The sun doesn't shine at night, and sometimes the wind stops blowing....
NEW  Climate change: can we stop it ? -  Or are we heading for disaster? With  audio
Polluting for pleasure ? -  a dialogue in simple English
Pollution - someone else's problem - a humorous dialogue on a serious subject.
The wind farm controversy - Conservationists oppose plans to modernise a wind farm.
 Short text: The car of the future?  An easy text in semi-technical English.  With  audio
 Will there be life after oil?  What will happen when the oil runs out ?  With  audio
 Short text: Holidays in space  An easy text in semi-technical English
 The story of Silicon Valley  What is Silicon valley, where is it, and why ?
Short text: Living without energy  A short text in semi-technical English
The legendary Mini Cooper - Semi-technical English
The story of the bicycle - semi technical English
Cartoons
Original strip cartoons in simple English
  Cartoon - MacBrain & MacBrawn 1 - Fiona McBelle -
        MacBrain & MacBrawn - cartoon 2 : A Walk in the hills
        MacBrain & MacBrawn - cartoon 3 : The Sales
        MacBrain & MacBrawn - cartoon 4 : Wishful thinking
        MacBrain & MacBrawn - cartoon 5 : The motorbike
        MacBrain & MacBrawn - cartoon 6 : Another dinner date
        MacBrain & MacBrawn - cartoon 7 : African safari ?
        MacBrain & MacBrawn - cartoon 8 : A new job...
        MacBrain & MacBrawn - cartoon 9 : Hang-gliding champion...
   and more to come.

4.  Go to > Intermediate Puzzles and word games


Linguapress.com home
English Grammar pages	Découvrez l'Angleterre  
en français / in French	Discover Britain

 Click to contact Linguapress


English for A2 B1 and B2 levels. Intermediate English reading resources 
CEFR / TELC - levels (A2) B1 or B2 (Threshold - intermediate)
IELTS - levels 4 - 6
ACTFL - levels  Advanced-low – Advanced-mid.

Readability

Most  Linguapress Intermediate texts score as follows on the Flesch-Kincaid scales:
Grade : between 6 and 8,
Readability level : either
plain60 - 70  Plain English
or
feasy70 - 80  Fairly easy
To Understand Flesch Kincaid scales,  see the Linguapress Readability guide
 

 
EFL magazine
The magzine for English teachers


Simplified English ?
The "simplified English" in these items is not simplistic English, nor is it artificial English.
It is real English, with the difficulties ironed out.  Resources in this section vary in difficulty from low intermediate English to advanced intermediate (equivalent of up to Cambridge First certificate of English level, or CEFR * levels A2 to B2), and are designed for students with (the equivalent of) at least two to four years of high-school English behind them - not for beginners.

twi Follow Linguapress on Twitter   @linguapress


online shopping
delivered worldwidse


CopyrightCopyright information.  

Free to view, free to use, free to print, but not free to copy. except  by teachers for their own classes.
All pages published on Linguapress.com are © copyright Linguapress unless otherwise indicated.
Teachers are free to reproduce these resources on paper for use with specific classes, and students are free to print out personal copies of materials from Linguapress.com.

Want to share ?
Do not copy materials from Linguapress.com on any other publicly accessible website. This is an infringement of copyright, and it is pointless. All pages on Linguapress.com can be freely accessed by anyone; no registration, no passwords! So to share Linguapress, just  link directly from your blog or website to linguapress.com

Click for full copyright information

Most items in the Linguapress intermediate English archive can be easily printed for classroom use. See Printing Linguapress English resources

* CEFR - The Council of Europe's Common European Framework of Reference for languages.
Teachers: do you and your students enjoy working with Linguapress ? Let us know what you like best, what you would like to see more of, or any questions you may have.  To send us your views or questions, please use our get-in-touch form.

Other online EFL / ESL language and cultural resources


Linguapress
Since 1980


Photo top by Julius Silver / Pixabay   
    

Website © Linguapress.com 1998-2022 unless otherwise indicated.
Cookies: To remove this message just click . Linguapress respects your privacy, and does not collect any personal data. We use cookies only to log anonymous web stats and enable essential page functions. For more about privacy click privacy; for more about cookies click cookies.
