Skip to main content
HomeLearnEnglish
Search
User account menu
Log in
Register
Main navigation
Home
Online Courses
Skills
Grammar
Vocabulary
Business English
General English
English levels
Community
Skills  Reading
Reading

Discover your current English level by taking our free online test
Discover your level
Here you can find activities to practise your reading skills. Reading will help you to improve your understanding of the language and build your vocabulary.

The self-study lessons in this section are written and organised according to the levels of the Common European Framework of Reference for languages (CEFR). There are different types of texts and interactive exercises that practise the reading skills you need to do well in your studies, to get ahead at work and to communicate in English in your free time.

Take our free online English test to find out which level to choose. Select your level, from beginner (CEFR level A1) to advanced (CEFR level C1), and improve your reading skills at your own speed, whenever it's convenient for you.

Choose your level to practise your reading

A1 reading
Reading practice to help you understand simple information, words and sentences about known topics. Texts include posters, messages, forms and timetables.

A2 reading
Reading practice to help you understand simple texts and find specific information in everyday material. Texts include emails, invitations, personal messages, tips, notices and signs.

B1 reading
Reading practice to help you understand texts with everyday or job-related language. Texts include articles, travel guides, emails, adverts and reviews.

B2 reading
Reading practice to help you understand texts with a wide vocabulary where you may need to consider the writer's opinion. Texts include articles, reports, messages, short stories and reviews.

C1 reading
Reading practice to help you understand long, complex texts about a wide variety of topics, some of which may be unfamiliar. Texts include specialised articles, biographies and summaries.
Learn to read English with confidence
Our online self-study, live classes and one-to-one courses with personal tutors are designed by some of the world's English teaching experts. They offer a safe and inclusive learning environment to help you improve your English and achieve your ambitions.

Learn to understand real-world English with our online courses. Join thousands of learners from around the world who have improved their English skills with our online courses.

Find out more

Side menu
Listening
Reading
A1 reading
A2 reading
B1 reading
B2 reading
C1 reading
Writing
Speaking
Online English courses
Online English courses
Our websites
LearnEnglish Kids for children aged 5 to 12
LearnEnglish Teens for children aged 13 to 17
TeachingEnglish for teachers and teacher educators
Help
Frequently asked questions
Getting started with our free resources
House rules
Sign up for our newsletter
Home
 
Online Courses
Live online classes
Self-study online courses
Personal online tutoring
IELTS online courses
 
Skills
Listening
Reading
Writing
Speaking
 
Grammar
A1-A2 grammar
B1-B2 grammar
English grammar reference
 
Vocabulary
A1-A2 vocabulary
B1-B2 vocabulary
Vocabulary games
 
Business English
Corporate training and assessments
Business magazine
Podcasts for professionals
English for emails
You're Hired
 
General English
Video zone
Audio zone
Magazine zone
Story zone
Audio series
Video series
Apps
 
English levels
Online English level test
A1 English level (elementary)
A2 English level (pre-intermediate)
B1 English level (intermediate)
B2 English level (upper intermediate)
C1 English level (advanced)
C2 English level (proficiency)
 
Community
Community events
LearnEnglish webinars
Follow us
Facebook
Twitter
Footer
Terms of use
Accessibility
Privacy and cookies
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Newsletter
Getting started
House rules
Site map
© British Council
The United Kingdom's international organisation for cultural relations and educational opportunities.
A registered charity: 209131 (England and Wales) SC037733 (Scotland).

We use both first and third-party cookies to personalise web content, analyse visits to our websites and tailor advertisements. Some of these cookies are necessary for the website to function, whilst others require your consent. More detail can be found in our cookie policy and you can tailor your choices in the preference centre.

Accept All Cookies
Cookies Settings
